demo/README.md, before:

# Tessera Demo

A simple demo application for local testing of the Tessera image viewer.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.0.0 or higher
- pnpm 8.0.0 or higher

## Setup

First, install dependencies for the demo:

```bash
cd demo
pnpm install
```

## Running the Demo

Start the development server:

```bash
# From the root directory
pnpm demo

# Or from the demo directory
cd demo
pnpm dev
```

The demo will be available at `http://localhost:3000` and should open automatically in your browser.

## Features

The demo includes:

- **Viewer Initialization**: Tests the basic viewer setup with WebGPU/WebGL/Canvas2D fallback
- **Test Image Loading**: Creates and loads a test checkerboard image
- **Pan & Zoom**: Mouse drag to pan, mouse wheel to zoom
- **Controls**: Buttons for zoom in/out and reset view
- **Status Display**: Shows current backend, ready state, and image dimensions

## Browser Support

- **Chrome/Edge**: 113+ (WebGPU support)
- **Firefox**: 110+ (WebGPU support)
- **Safari**: 16.4+ (WebGPU support)
- **Fallback**: Any browser with WebGL support

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:

1. Check that dependencies are installed: `pnpm install` (in the demo directory)
2. Check the browser console for errors
3. Ensure you're using a supported browser version
4. Make sure Vite can resolve the TypeScript source files from the packages

Commit message:

Update demo application with sample images support
- Remove header from demo HTML (title in browser tab is sufficient)
- Fix Vite glob configuration (remove unsupported exclude option)
- Add samples folder with README and .gitkeep
- Update demo to dynamically discover images from samples folder
- Add test images (TIFF, PNG, JPEG) for local testing
- Update .gitignore to exclude sample images but keep README
- Rename sample-images folder to samples for simplicity

demo/README.md, after:

# Tessera Demo

A simple demo application for local testing of the Tessera image viewer.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.0.0 or higher
- pnpm 8.0.0 or higher

## Setup

First, install dependencies for the demo:

```bash
cd demo
pnpm install
```

## Running the Demo

Start the development server:

```bash
# From the root directory
pnpm demo

# Or from the demo directory
cd demo
pnpm dev
```

The demo will be available at `http://localhost:3000` and should open automatically in your browser.

## Features

The demo includes:

- **Viewer Initialization**: Tests the basic viewer setup with WebGPU/WebGL/Canvas2D fallback
- **Test Image Loading**: Automatically loads images from the `samples/` folder, or generates a test checkerboard image
- **Pan & Zoom**: Mouse drag to pan, mouse wheel to zoom
- **Controls**: Buttons for zoom in/out and reset view
- **Status Display**: Shows current backend, ready state, and image dimensions

## Sample Images

Place test images in the `demo/samples/` folder. The demo will automatically discover and load any files you place there. All files in this directory are gitignored.

## Browser Support

- **Chrome/Edge**: 113+ (WebGPU support)
- **Firefox**: 110+ (WebGPU support)
- **Safari**: 16.4+ (WebGPU support)
- **Fallback**: Any browser with WebGL support

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:

1. Check that dependencies are installed: `pnpm install` (in the demo directory)
2. Check the browser console for errors
3. Ensure you're using a supported browser version
4. Make sure Vite can resolve the TypeScript source files from the packages
